# BasicInterestCalculator
A calculator for determining the interest given a number of starting dollars, interest rate and time invested. 

    
  This repository contains source code to the Airgead Banking application, a pseudocompany designed by my school, Southern New Hampshire University, to showcase my knowledge in a realistic setting. I created the program because Airgead Banking requires an application that takes an inital amount of money as an Inital Investment Amount, a recurring deposit called a Monthly Deposit, the rate of interest, Annual Interest Rate. Finally the length of time, Number Years. The app then calculates a report for the Balance and Interest With and Without Monthly Deposits. The user can repeat this process any number of times before exiting the program.
  
  I particularly am satisfied with my displayReport~ functions. I am satisifed with these function because I believe I implemented a very simplified integration of the displayReport~ functions. I took a bit of time to ponder how I can implement the display feature for them, however I realized after some time that I was merely over complicating the process in my head and attempted to write the report without deposits first which made it easy for me to see how similar the report with deposits will be to the current function I was writing. 
While my program does not take sensitive data like passwords and does not store user input for later use after the program is exited there is nothing requiring the user to be inputting real numbers and the calculator can be multipurposed to estimate later financial situations. However, my program could be improved if I thought of a way to enable the user to enter an inital investment amount again without exiting the program.

  At first I did not quite wrap my head around how I was going to loop the functions in the program so I wrote my functions first then figured out how to loop it. It was difficult to realize how the while loop will run without exiting but I would frequently compile and run my code so that I could see what the program is producing. Inevitably I figured out how I can utilize the while loop inside my main function to enable the user to input differet data sets. 
  
  In this course I learned how to write a basic program in C++ that runs in the terminal that takes in user input and converts it based on a given formula. This is highly transferrable and is one step closer to making more complex C++ terminal programs.
  
  I made this program maintainable, readable and adaptable in a number of ways from industry formatting to in-line comments and uploading this program to Github allows for it to be maintable. I did my best to ensure I followed industry standard coding practices. I read my code aloud to a partner and wrote in-line comments as we saught fit, enabling maximum readability to outside spectators. To ensure maintainability, in cohesion with adaptability and readability, uploading this project to Github enables users to maintain the project for future updates.
